docs/backups-restore.md, before:

# Restore the cluster from a previously saved backup

The Operator supports the ability to perform a full restore on a PostgreSQL
cluster as well as a point-in-time-recovery. There are two ways to
restore a cluster:

* restore to a new cluster using the [dataSource.postgresCluster](operator.md#datasource-postgrescluster-clustername)
subsection,
* restore in-place to an existing cluster (note that this is destructive) using
the [backups.restore](operator.md#backups-restore-enabled) subsection.

## Restore to a new PostgreSQL cluster

Restoring to a new PostgreSQL cluster allows you to take a backup and create a
new PostgreSQL cluster that can run alongside an existing one. There are several
scenarios where using this technique is helpful:

* Creating a copy of a PostgreSQL cluster that can be used for other purposes.
    Another way of putting this is *creating a clone*.
* Restore to a point-in-time and inspect the state of the data without affecting
    the current cluster.

To create a new PostgreSQL cluster from either the active one, or a former cluster
whose pgBackRest repository still exists, use the [dataSource.postgresCluster](operator.md#datasource-postgrescluster-clustername) subsection options. The content of this subsection
should copy the `backups` keys of the original cluster - ones needed to carry on
the restore:

* `dataSource.postgresCluster.clusterName` should contain the new cluster name,
* `dataSource.postgresCluster.options` allow you to set the needed pgBackRest
    command line options,
* `dataSource.postgresCluster.repoName` should contain the name of the
    pgBackRest repository, while the actual storage configuration keys for this
    repository should be placed into `dataSource.pgbackrest.repo` subsection,
* `dataSource.pgbackrest.configuration.secret.name` should contain the name of
    a Kubernetes Secret with credentials needed to access cloud storage, if any.
    
## Restore to an existing PostgreSQL cluster

To restore the previously saved backup, use a *backup restore*
configuration file. The example of the backup configuration file is
[deploy/restore.yaml :octicons-link-external-16:](https://github.com/percona/percona-postgresql-operator/blob/main/deploy/restore.yaml):

```yaml
apiVersion: pgv2.percona.com/v2
kind: PerconaPGRestore
metadata:
  name: restore1
spec:
  pgCluster: cluster1
  repoName: repo1
  options:
  - --type=time
  - --target="2022-11-30 15:12:11+03"
```

The following keys are the most important ones:

* `pgCluster` specifies the name of your cluster,
* `repoName` specifies the name of one of the 4 pgBackRest repositories,
    already configured in the `backups.pgbackrest.repos` subsection,
* `options` passes through any [pgBackRest command line options :octicons-link-external-16:](https://pgbackrest.org/configuration.html).

To start the restoration process, run the following command:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
$ kubectl apply -f deploy/restore.yaml
```

### Specifying which backup to restore

When there are multiple backups, the Operator will restore the latest full
backup by default.

if you want to restore to some previous backup, not the last one, follow these
steps:

1. Find the label of the backup you want to restore. For this, you need to
    run `pgbackrest info` command on the pgBackRest Pod (`cluster1-repo-host-0`
    if you use the default cluster name):

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl exec -it cluster1-repo-host-0 -- pgbackrest info
    ```

    ??? example "Expected output"

        ```{.text .no-copy}
        Defaulted container "pgbackrest" out of: pgbackrest, pgbackrest-config, pgbackrest-log-dir (init), nss-wrapper-init (init)
        stanza: db
            status: ok
            cipher: none
        
            db (current)
                wal archive min/max (16): 000000010000000000000001/00000003000000000000001C
        
                full backup: 20240126-101011F
                    timestamp start/stop: 2024-01-26 10:10:11+00 / 2024-01-26 10:12:57+00
                    wal start/stop: 000000010000000000000006 / 000000010000000000000008
                    database size: 30.4MB, database backup size: 30.4MB
                    repo1: backup set size: 4MB, backup size: 4MB
        
                incr backup: 20240126-101011F_20240126-114154I
                    timestamp start/stop: 2024-01-26 11:41:54+00 / 2024-01-26 11:41:57+00
                    wal start/stop: 000000010000000000000010 / 000000010000000000000011
                    database size: 30.5MB, database backup size: 4.6MB
                    repo1: backup set size: 4.1MB, backup size: 699.2KB
                    backup reference list: 20240126-101011F
                ...
        ```

2. Now use a *backup restore* configuration file with additional
    `--set=<backup_label>` pgBackRest option. For example, the following yaml
    file will result in restoring to a backup labeled `20240126-101011F`:
    
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pgv2.percona.com/v2
    kind: PerconaPGRestore
    metadata:
      name: restore1
    spec:
      pgCluster: cluster1
      repoName: repo1
      options:
      - --type=immediate
      - --set=20240126-101011F
    ```

3. Start the restoration process, as usual:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/restore.yaml
    ```

## Restore the cluster with point-in-time recovery

Point-in-time recovery functionality allows users to revert the database back to
a state before an unwanted change had occurred.

!!! note

    For this feature to work, the Operator initiates a full backup 
    immediately after the cluster creation, to use it as a basis for
    point-in-time recovery when needed (this backup is not listed in the output
    of the `kubectl get pg-backup` command).

You can set up a point-in-time recovery using the normal restore command of
pgBackRest with few additional `spec.options` fields in `deploy/restore.yaml`:

* set `--type` option to `time`,
* set `--target` to a specific time you would like to restore to. You can use
    the typical string formatted as `<YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:DD>`, optionally followed
    by a timezone offset: `"2021-04-16 15:13:32+00"` (`+00` in the above
    example means UTC),
* optional `--set` argument followed with a pgBackRest backup ID allows you to
    choose the backup which will be the starting point for point-in-time
    recovery. This option must be specified if the target is one or more backups
    away from the current moment. You can look through the available backups with the 
    [pgBackRest info :octicons-link-external-16:](https://pgbackrest.org/command.html#command-info)
    command to find out the proper backup ID.

    ??? example "pgBackRest backup ID example"

        After obtaining the Pod name with `kubectl get pods` command, you can
        run `pgbackrest --stanza=db info` command on the appropriate Pod as
        follows:

        ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
        $ kubectl -n pgo exec -it cluster1-instance1-hcgr-0 -c database -- pgbackrest --stanza=db info
        ```
        
        Then find ID of the needed backup in the output:
        
        ```{.text .no-copy hl_lines="8"}
        stanza: db
            status: ok
            cipher: none
        
            db (prior)
                wal archive min/max (16): 0000000F000000000000001C/0000002000000036000000C5
        
                full backup: 20240401-173403F
                    timestamp start/stop: 2024-04-01 17:34:03+00 / 2024-04-01 17:36:57+00
                    wal start/stop: 000000120000000000000022 / 000000120000000000000024
                    database size: 31MB, database backup size: 31MB
                    repo1: backup set size: 4.1MB, backup size: 4.1MB
        
                incr backup: 20240401-173403F_20240415-201250I
                    timestamp start/stop: 2024-04-15 20:12:50+00 / 2024-04-15 20:14:19+00
                    wal start/stop: 00000019000000000000005C / 00000019000000000000005D
                    database size: 46.0MB, database backup size: 25.7MB
                    repo1: backup set size: 6.1MB, backup size: 3.8MB
                    backup reference list: 20240401-173403F

                incr backup: 20240401-173403F_20240415-201430I
        ...
        ```
        
        Now you can put this backup ID to the *backup restore* configuration
        file as follows:

        ```yaml hl_lines="9"
        apiVersion: pgv2.percona.com/v2
        kind: PerconaPGRestore
        metadata:
          name: restore1
        spec:
          pgCluster: cluster1
          repoName: repo1
          options:
          - --set="20240401-173403F"
        ```

The example may look as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: pgv2.percona.com/v2
kind: PerconaPGRestore
metadata:
  name: restore1
spec:
  pgCluster: cluster1
  repoName: repo1
  options:
  - --type=time
  - --target="2022-11-30 15:12:11+03"
```

After setting these options in the *backup restore* configuration file,
start the restoration process:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
$ kubectl apply -f deploy/restore.yaml
```

!!! note

    Make sure you have a backup that is older than your desired point in time.
    You obviously can’t restore from a time where you do not have a backup.
    All relevant write-ahead log files must be successfully pushed before you
    make the restore.

Commit message:

K8SPG-518 mention latest restorabel time status field (#202)

docs/backups-restore.md, after:

# Restore the cluster from a previously saved backup

The Operator supports the ability to perform a full restore on a PostgreSQL
cluster as well as a point-in-time-recovery. There are two ways to
restore a cluster:

* restore to a new cluster using the [dataSource.postgresCluster](operator.md#datasource-postgrescluster-clustername)
subsection,
* restore in-place to an existing cluster (note that this is destructive) using
the [backups.restore](operator.md#backups-restore-enabled) subsection.

## Restore to a new PostgreSQL cluster

Restoring to a new PostgreSQL cluster allows you to take a backup and create a
new PostgreSQL cluster that can run alongside an existing one. There are several
scenarios where using this technique is helpful:

* Creating a copy of a PostgreSQL cluster that can be used for other purposes.
    Another way of putting this is *creating a clone*.
* Restore to a point-in-time and inspect the state of the data without affecting
    the current cluster.

To create a new PostgreSQL cluster from either the active one, or a former cluster
whose pgBackRest repository still exists, use the [dataSource.postgresCluster](operator.md#datasource-postgrescluster-clustername) subsection options. The content of this subsection
should copy the `backups` keys of the original cluster - ones needed to carry on
the restore:

* `dataSource.postgresCluster.clusterName` should contain the new cluster name,
* `dataSource.postgresCluster.options` allow you to set the needed pgBackRest
    command line options,
* `dataSource.postgresCluster.repoName` should contain the name of the
    pgBackRest repository, while the actual storage configuration keys for this
    repository should be placed into `dataSource.pgbackrest.repo` subsection,
* `dataSource.pgbackrest.configuration.secret.name` should contain the name of
    a Kubernetes Secret with credentials needed to access cloud storage, if any.
    
## Restore to an existing PostgreSQL cluster

To restore the previously saved backup, use a *backup restore*
configuration file. The example of the backup configuration file is
[deploy/restore.yaml :octicons-link-external-16:](https://github.com/percona/percona-postgresql-operator/blob/main/deploy/restore.yaml):

```yaml
apiVersion: pgv2.percona.com/v2
kind: PerconaPGRestore
metadata:
  name: restore1
spec:
  pgCluster: cluster1
  repoName: repo1
  options:
  - --type=time
  - --target="2022-11-30 15:12:11+03"
```

The following keys are the most important ones:

* `pgCluster` specifies the name of your cluster,
* `repoName` specifies the name of one of the 4 pgBackRest repositories,
    already configured in the `backups.pgbackrest.repos` subsection,
* `options` passes through any [pgBackRest command line options :octicons-link-external-16:](https://pgbackrest.org/configuration.html).

To start the restoration process, run the following command:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
$ kubectl apply -f deploy/restore.yaml
```

### Specifying which backup to restore

When there are multiple backups, the Operator will restore the latest full
backup by default.

if you want to restore to some previous backup, not the last one, follow these
steps:

1. Find the label of the backup you want to restore. For this, you need to
    run `pgbackrest info` command on the pgBackRest Pod (`cluster1-repo-host-0`
    if you use the default cluster name):

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl exec -it cluster1-repo-host-0 -- pgbackrest info
    ```

    ??? example "Expected output"

        ```{.text .no-copy}
        Defaulted container "pgbackrest" out of: pgbackrest, pgbackrest-config, pgbackrest-log-dir (init), nss-wrapper-init (init)
        stanza: db
            status: ok
            cipher: none
        
            db (current)
                wal archive min/max (16): 000000010000000000000001/00000003000000000000001C
        
                full backup: 20240126-101011F
                    timestamp start/stop: 2024-01-26 10:10:11+00 / 2024-01-26 10:12:57+00
                    wal start/stop: 000000010000000000000006 / 000000010000000000000008
                    database size: 30.4MB, database backup size: 30.4MB
                    repo1: backup set size: 4MB, backup size: 4MB
        
                incr backup: 20240126-101011F_20240126-114154I
                    timestamp start/stop: 2024-01-26 11:41:54+00 / 2024-01-26 11:41:57+00
                    wal start/stop: 000000010000000000000010 / 000000010000000000000011
                    database size: 30.5MB, database backup size: 4.6MB
                    repo1: backup set size: 4.1MB, backup size: 699.2KB
                    backup reference list: 20240126-101011F
                ...
        ```

2. Now use a *backup restore* configuration file with additional
    `--set=<backup_label>` pgBackRest option. For example, the following yaml
    file will result in restoring to a backup labeled `20240126-101011F`:
    
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pgv2.percona.com/v2
    kind: PerconaPGRestore
    metadata:
      name: restore1
    spec:
      pgCluster: cluster1
      repoName: repo1
      options:
      - --type=immediate
      - --set=20240126-101011F
    ```

3. Start the restoration process, as usual:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/restore.yaml
    ```

## Restore the cluster with point-in-time recovery

Point-in-time recovery functionality allows users to revert the database back to
a state before an unwanted change had occurred.

!!! note

    For this feature to work, the Operator initiates a full backup 
    immediately after the cluster creation, to use it as a basis for
    point-in-time recovery when needed (this backup is not listed in the output
    of the `kubectl get pg-backup` command).

You can set up a point-in-time recovery using the normal restore command of
pgBackRest with few additional `spec.options` fields in `deploy/restore.yaml`:

* set `--type` option to `time`,
* set `--target` to a specific time you would like to restore to. You can use
    the typical string formatted as `<YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:DD>`, optionally followed
    by a timezone offset: `"2021-04-16 15:13:32+00"` (`+00` in the above
    example means UTC),
* optional `--set` argument followed with a pgBackRest backup ID allows you to
    choose the backup which will be the starting point for point-in-time
    recovery. This option must be specified if the target is one or more backups
    away from the current moment. You can look through the available backups with the 
    [pgBackRest info :octicons-link-external-16:](https://pgbackrest.org/command.html#command-info)
    command to find out the proper backup ID.

    ??? example "pgBackRest backup ID example"

        After obtaining the Pod name with `kubectl get pods` command, you can
        run `pgbackrest --stanza=db info` command on the appropriate Pod as
        follows:

        ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
        $ kubectl -n pgo exec -it cluster1-instance1-hcgr-0 -c database -- pgbackrest --stanza=db info
        ```
        
        Then find ID of the needed backup in the output:
        
        ```{.text .no-copy hl_lines="8"}
        stanza: db
            status: ok
            cipher: none
        
            db (prior)
                wal archive min/max (16): 0000000F000000000000001C/0000002000000036000000C5
        
                full backup: 20240401-173403F
                    timestamp start/stop: 2024-04-01 17:34:03+00 / 2024-04-01 17:36:57+00
                    wal start/stop: 000000120000000000000022 / 000000120000000000000024
                    database size: 31MB, database backup size: 31MB
                    repo1: backup set size: 4.1MB, backup size: 4.1MB
        
                incr backup: 20240401-173403F_20240415-201250I
                    timestamp start/stop: 2024-04-15 20:12:50+00 / 2024-04-15 20:14:19+00
                    wal start/stop: 00000019000000000000005C / 00000019000000000000005D
                    database size: 46.0MB, database backup size: 25.7MB
                    repo1: backup set size: 6.1MB, backup size: 3.8MB
                    backup reference list: 20240401-173403F

                incr backup: 20240401-173403F_20240415-201430I
        ...
        ```
        
        Now you can put this backup ID to the *backup restore* configuration
        file as follows:

        ```yaml hl_lines="9"
        apiVersion: pgv2.percona.com/v2
        kind: PerconaPGRestore
        metadata:
          name: restore1
        spec:
          pgCluster: cluster1
          repoName: repo1
          options:
          - --set="20240401-173403F"
        ```

The example may look as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: pgv2.percona.com/v2
kind: PerconaPGRestore
metadata:
  name: restore1
spec:
  pgCluster: cluster1
  repoName: repo1
  options:
  - --type=time
  - --target="2022-11-30 15:12:11+03"
```

    !!! note

        <a name="backups-latest-restorable-time"></a> Latest succeeded backup available with the `kubectl get pg-backup` command has a "Latest restorable time" information field handy when selecting a backup to restore. You can easily query the backup for this information as follows:
   
        ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
        $ kubectl get pg-backup <backup_name> -o jsonpath='{.status.latestRestorableTime}'
        ```

After setting these options in the *backup restore* configuration file,
start the restoration process:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
$ kubectl apply -f deploy/restore.yaml
```

!!! note

    Make sure you have a backup that is older than your desired point in time.
    You obviously can’t restore from a time where you do not have a backup.
    All relevant write-ahead log files must be successfully pushed before you
    make the restore.
