docs/cluster-wide.md, before:

# Percona Operator for PostgreSQL single-namespace and multi-namespace deployment

There are two design patterns that you can choose from when deploying Percona Operator for PostgreSQL and PostgreSQL clusters in Kubernetes:

* Namespace-scope - one Operator per Kubernetes namespace,

* Cluster-wide - one Operator can manage clusters in multiple namespaces.

This how-to explains how to configure Percona Operator for PostgreSQL for each scenario.

## Namespace-scope

By default, Percona Operator for PostgreSQL functions in a specific Kubernetes namespace. You can
create one during installation (like it is shown in the
[installation instructions](kubernetes.md)) or just use the default namespace. This approach allows several Operators to co-exist in one Kubernetes-based environment, being separated in different namespaces:

![image](assets/images/cluster-wide-1.svg)

Normally this is a recommended approach, as isolation minimizes impact in case of various failure scenarios. This is the default configuration of our Operator.

Let’s say you will use a Kubernetes Namespace called `percona-db-1`.

1. Clone `percona-postgresql-operator` repository:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ git clone -b v{{ release }} https://github.com/percona/percona-postgresql-operator
    $ cd percona-postgresql-operator
    ```

2. Create the [CustomRecourceDefinitions (CRDs)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/#customresourcedefinitions)
   for Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL. This step should be done only once:
   skip this step if you already have other Percona Operator for PostgreSQL 2.x
   deployments in your Kubernetes environment.

   You can [apply the CRD](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/)
   as follows:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply --server-side -f deploy/crd.yaml
    ```

3. Create your `percona-db-1` Namespace (if it doesn't yet exist) as follows:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl create namespace percona-db-1
    ```

4. Deploy the Operator:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/operator.yaml -n percona-db-1
    ```

5. Once Operator is up and running, deploy the database cluster itself:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml -n percona-db-1
    ```

You can deploy multiple clusters in this namespace.

### Add more namespaces

What if there is a need to deploy clusters in another namespace? The solution for namespace-scope deployment is to have more than one Operator. We will use the `percona-db-2` namespace as an example.

1. Create your `percona-db-2` namespace (if it doesn't yet exist) as follows:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl create namespace percona-db-2
    ```

2. Deploy the Operator:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/operator.yaml -n percona-db-2
    ```

3. Once Operator is up and running deploy the database cluster itself:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml -n percona-db-2
    ```

    !!! note

        Cluster names may be the same in different namespaces.

## Install the Operator cluster-wide

Sometimes it is more convenient to have one Operator watching for
Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL custom resources in several namespaces.

We recommend running Percona Operator for PostgreSQL in a traditional way,
limited to a specific namespace, to limit the blast radius. But it is possible
to run it in so-called *cluster-wide* mode, one Operator watching several
namespaces, if needed:

![image](assets/images/cluster-wide-2.svg)

To use the Operator in such cluster-wide mode, you should install it with a
different set of configuration YAML files, which are available in the deploy
folder and have filenames with a special `cw-` prefix: e.g.
`deploy/cw-bundle.yaml`.

While using this cluster-wide versions of configuration files, you should set
the following information there:

* `subjects.namespace` option should contain the namespace which will host
    the Operator,
* `WATCH_NAMESPACE` key-value pair in the `env` section should have
    `value` equal to a  comma-separated list of the namespaces to be watched by
    the Operator, *and* the namespace in which the Operator resides (or just a
    blank string to make the Operator deal with *all namespaces* in a Kubernetes
    cluster).

The following simple example shows how to install Operator cluster-wide on
Kubernetes.

1. Clone `percona-postgresql-operator` repository:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ git clone -b v{{ release }} https://github.com/percona/percona-postgresql-operator
    $ cd percona-postgresql-operator
    ```

2. Let’s suppose that Operator’s namespace should be the `pg-operator` one.
    Create it as follows:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl create namespace pg-operator
    ```

3. Edit the ``deploy/cw-bundle.yaml`` configuration file to make sure it
    contains proper namespace name for the Operator:

    ```yaml
    ...
    subjects:
    - kind: ServiceAccount
      name: percona-postgresql-operator
      namespace: pg-operator
    ...
    ```

4. Apply the `deploy/cw-bundle.yaml` file with the following command:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/cw-bundle.yaml -n pg-operator
    ```

    Right now the operator deployed in cluster-wide mode will monitor all
    namespaces in the cluster, either already existing or newly created ones.

5. Create the namespace you have chosen for the cluster, if needed. let's call
    it `percona-db-1` for example:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl create namespace percona-db-1
    ```
    
6.  Deploy the cluster in the namespace of your choice:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml -n percona-db-1
    ```

## Verifying the cluster operation

When creation process is over, you can try to connect to the cluster.

{% include 'assets/fragments/connectivity.txt' %}

Commit message:

K8SPG-372 Update information about namespaces list in cluster-wide doc

docs/cluster-wide.md, after:

# Percona Operator for PostgreSQL single-namespace and multi-namespace deployment

There are two design patterns that you can choose from when deploying Percona Operator for PostgreSQL and PostgreSQL clusters in Kubernetes:

* Namespace-scope - one Operator per Kubernetes namespace,

* Cluster-wide - one Operator can manage clusters in multiple namespaces.

This how-to explains how to configure Percona Operator for PostgreSQL for each scenario.

## Namespace-scope

By default, Percona Operator for PostgreSQL functions in a specific Kubernetes namespace. You can
create one during installation (like it is shown in the
[installation instructions](kubernetes.md)) or just use the default namespace. This approach allows several Operators to co-exist in one Kubernetes-based environment, being separated in different namespaces:

![image](assets/images/cluster-wide-1.svg)

Normally this is a recommended approach, as isolation minimizes impact in case of various failure scenarios. This is the default configuration of our Operator.

Let’s say you will use a Kubernetes Namespace called `percona-db-1`.

1. Clone `percona-postgresql-operator` repository:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ git clone -b v{{ release }} https://github.com/percona/percona-postgresql-operator
    $ cd percona-postgresql-operator
    ```

2. Create the [CustomRecourceDefinitions (CRDs)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/#customresourcedefinitions)
   for Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL. This step should be done only once:
   skip this step if you already have other Percona Operator for PostgreSQL 2.x
   deployments in your Kubernetes environment.

   You can [apply the CRD](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/)
   as follows:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply --server-side -f deploy/crd.yaml
    ```

3. Create your `percona-db-1` Namespace (if it doesn't yet exist) as follows:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl create namespace percona-db-1
    ```

4. Deploy the Operator:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/operator.yaml -n percona-db-1
    ```

5. Once Operator is up and running, deploy the database cluster itself:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml -n percona-db-1
    ```

You can deploy multiple clusters in this namespace.

### Add more namespaces

What if there is a need to deploy clusters in another namespace? The solution for namespace-scope deployment is to have more than one Operator. We will use the `percona-db-2` namespace as an example.

1. Create your `percona-db-2` namespace (if it doesn't yet exist) as follows:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl create namespace percona-db-2
    ```

2. Deploy the Operator:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/operator.yaml -n percona-db-2
    ```

3. Once Operator is up and running deploy the database cluster itself:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml -n percona-db-2
    ```

    !!! note

        Cluster names may be the same in different namespaces.

## Install the Operator cluster-wide

Sometimes it is more convenient to have one Operator watching for
Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL custom resources in several namespaces.

We recommend running Percona Operator for PostgreSQL in a traditional way,
limited to a specific namespace, to limit the blast radius. But it is possible
to run it in so-called *cluster-wide* mode, one Operator watching several
namespaces, if needed:

![image](assets/images/cluster-wide-2.svg)

To use the Operator in such cluster-wide mode, you should install it with a
different set of configuration YAML files, which are available in the deploy
folder and have filenames with a special `cw-` prefix: e.g.
`deploy/cw-bundle.yaml`.

While using this cluster-wide versions of configuration files, you should set
the following information there:

* `subjects.namespace` option should contain the namespace which will host
    the Operator,
* `WATCH_NAMESPACE` key-value pair in the `env` section should have
    `value` equal to a  comma-separated list of the namespaces to be watched by
    the Operator, *and* the namespace in which the Operator resides. If this key
    is set to a blank string, the Operator will watch
    **only the namespace it runs in**, which would be the same as
    [single-namespace deployment](cluster-wide.md#namespace-scope).

The following simple example shows how to install Operator cluster-wide on
Kubernetes.

1. Clone `percona-postgresql-operator` repository:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ git clone -b v{{ release }} https://github.com/percona/percona-postgresql-operator
    $ cd percona-postgresql-operator
    ```

2. Let’s suppose that Operator’s namespace should be the `pg-operator` one.
    Create it as follows:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl create namespace pg-operator
    ```

3. Edit the ``deploy/cw-bundle.yaml`` configuration file to make sure it
    contains proper namespace name for the Operator:

    ```yaml
    ...
    subjects:
    - kind: ServiceAccount
      name: percona-postgresql-operator
      namespace: pg-operator
    ...
    ```

4. Apply the `deploy/cw-bundle.yaml` file with the following command:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/cw-bundle.yaml -n pg-operator
    ```

    Right now the operator deployed in cluster-wide mode will monitor all
    namespaces in the cluster, either already existing or newly created ones.

5. Create the namespace you have chosen for the cluster, if needed. let's call
    it `percona-db-1` for example:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl create namespace percona-db-1
    ```
    
6.  Deploy the cluster in the namespace of your choice:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml -n percona-db-1
    ```

## Verifying the cluster operation

When creation process is over, you can try to connect to the cluster.

{% include 'assets/fragments/connectivity.txt' %}
