docs/openshift.md, before:

# Install Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL on OpenShift

Following steps will allow you to install the Operator and use it to manage
Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL on Red Hat OpenShift platform.
For more information on the OpenShift, see its [official documentation](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform).

Following steps will allow you to install the Operator and use it to manage
Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL on OpenShift.


1. First of all, clone the percona-postgresql-operator repository:

    ```bash
    git clone -b v{{ release }} https://github.com/percona/percona-postgresql-operator
    cd percona-postgresql-operator
    ```

    !!! note

        It is crucial to specify the right branch with `-b`
        option while cloning the code on this step. Please be careful.

2. The next thing to do is to add the `pgo` namespace to Kubernetes,
    not forgetting to set the correspondent context for further steps:

    ```bash
    $ oc create namespace pgo
    $ oc config set-context $(kubectl config current-context) --namespace=pgo
    ```

    !!! note

        To use different namespace, you should edit *all occurrences* of
        the `namespace: pgo` line in both `deploy/cr.yaml` and
        `deploy/operator.yaml` configuration files.

3. If you are going to use the operator with anyuid <https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/authentication/managing-security-context-constraints.html> security context constraint
    please execute the following command:

    ```bash
    $ sed -i '/disable_auto_failover: "false"/a \ \ \ \ disable_fsgroup: "false"' deploy/operator.yaml
    ```

4. Deploy the operator with the following command:

    ```bash
    $ oc apply -f deploy/operator.yaml
    ```

5. After the operator is started, Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL
    can be created at any time with the following command:

    ```bash
    $ oc apply -f deploy/cr.yaml
    ```

    Creation process will take some time. The process is over when both
    operator and replica set pod have reached their Running status:

    ```bash
    $ oc get pods
    NAME                                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    backrest-backup-cluster1-j275w                    0/1     Completed 0          10m
    cluster1-85486d645f-gpxzb                         1/1     Running   0          10m
    cluster1-backrest-shared-repo-6495464548-c8wvl    1/1     Running   0          10m
    cluster1-pgbouncer-fc45869f7-s86rf                1/1     Running   0          10m
    pgo-deploy-rhv6k                                  0/1     Completed 0          5m
    postgres-operator-8646c68b57-z8m62                4/4     Running   1          5m
    ```

6. During previous steps, the Operator has generated several [secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/), including the password for the `pguser` user, which you will need to access the cluster.

    Use `oc get secrets` command to see the list of Secrets objects (by default Secrets object you are interested in has `cluster1-pguser-secret` name). Then `kubectl get secret cluster1-pguser-secret -o yaml` will return the YAML file with generated secrets, including the password which should look as follows:

    ```yaml
    ...
    data:
      ...
      password: cGd1c2VyX3Bhc3N3b3JkCg==
    ```

    Here the actual password is base64-encoded, and `echo 'cGd1c2VyX3Bhc3N3b3JkCg==' | base64 --decode` will bring it back to a human-readable form (in this example it will be a `pguser_password` string).

7. Check connectivity to newly created cluster

    ```bash
    $ oc run -i --rm --tty pg-client --image=perconalab/percona-distribution-postgresql:{{ postgresrecommended }} --restart=Never -- bash -il
    [postgres@pg-client /]$ PGPASSWORD='pguser_password' psql -h cluster1-pgbouncer -p 5432 -U pguser pgdb
    ```

    This command will connect you to the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

    ```text
    psql ({{ postgresrecommended }})
    Type "help" for help.
    pgdb=>
    ```

Commit message:

CLOUD-723 explain percona-client container (#11)
* Update minikube.md

* Update openshift.md

* Update kubernetes.md

* Update gke.md

docs/openshift.md, after:

# Install Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL on OpenShift

Following steps will allow you to install the Operator and use it to manage
Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL on Red Hat OpenShift platform.
For more information on the OpenShift, see its [official documentation](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform).

Following steps will allow you to install the Operator and use it to manage
Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL on OpenShift.


1. First of all, clone the percona-postgresql-operator repository:

    ```bash
    git clone -b v{{ release }} https://github.com/percona/percona-postgresql-operator
    cd percona-postgresql-operator
    ```

    !!! note

        It is crucial to specify the right branch with `-b`
        option while cloning the code on this step. Please be careful.

2. The next thing to do is to add the `pgo` namespace to Kubernetes,
    not forgetting to set the correspondent context for further steps:

    ```bash
    $ oc create namespace pgo
    $ oc config set-context $(kubectl config current-context) --namespace=pgo
    ```

    !!! note

        To use different namespace, you should edit *all occurrences* of
        the `namespace: pgo` line in both `deploy/cr.yaml` and
        `deploy/operator.yaml` configuration files.

3. If you are going to use the operator with anyuid <https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/authentication/managing-security-context-constraints.html> security context constraint
    please execute the following command:

    ```bash
    $ sed -i '/disable_auto_failover: "false"/a \ \ \ \ disable_fsgroup: "false"' deploy/operator.yaml
    ```

4. Deploy the operator with the following command:

    ```bash
    $ oc apply -f deploy/operator.yaml
    ```

5. After the operator is started, Percona Distribution for PostgreSQL
    can be created at any time with the following command:

    ```bash
    $ oc apply -f deploy/cr.yaml
    ```

    Creation process will take some time. The process is over when both
    operator and replica set pod have reached their Running status:

    ```bash
    $ oc get pods
    NAME                                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    backrest-backup-cluster1-j275w                    0/1     Completed 0          10m
    cluster1-85486d645f-gpxzb                         1/1     Running   0          10m
    cluster1-backrest-shared-repo-6495464548-c8wvl    1/1     Running   0          10m
    cluster1-pgbouncer-fc45869f7-s86rf                1/1     Running   0          10m
    pgo-deploy-rhv6k                                  0/1     Completed 0          5m
    postgres-operator-8646c68b57-z8m62                4/4     Running   1          5m
    ```

6. During previous steps, the Operator has generated several [secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/), including the password for the `pguser` user, which you will need to access the cluster.

    Use `oc get secrets` command to see the list of Secrets objects (by default Secrets object you are interested in has `cluster1-pguser-secret` name). Then `kubectl get secret cluster1-pguser-secret -o yaml` will return the YAML file with generated secrets, including the password which should look as follows:

    ```yaml
    ...
    data:
      ...
      password: cGd1c2VyX3Bhc3N3b3JkCg==
    ```

    Here the actual password is base64-encoded, and `echo 'cGd1c2VyX3Bhc3N3b3JkCg==' | base64 --decode` will bring it back to a human-readable form (in this example it will be a `pguser_password` string).

7. Check connectivity to newly created cluster. Run a new Pod to use it as a client and connect its console output to your terminal (running it may require some time to deploy). When you see the command line prompt of the newly created Pod, run `psql` tool using the password obtained from the secret. The following command will do this, naming the new Pod `pg-client`:

    ```bash
    $ oc run -i --rm --tty pg-client --image=perconalab/percona-distribution-postgresql:{{ postgresrecommended }} --restart=Never -- bash -il
    [postgres@pg-client /]$ PGPASSWORD='pguser_password' psql -h cluster1-pgbouncer -p 5432 -U pguser pgdb
    ```

    This command will connect you to the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

    ```text
    psql ({{ postgresrecommended }})
    Type "help" for help.
    pgdb=>
    ```
