docs/TLS.md, before:

# Transport layer security (TLS)

The Percona Operator for PostgreSQL uses Transport Layer Security
(TLS) cryptographic protocol for the following types of communication:

* Internal - communication between PostgreSQL instances in the cluster
* External - communication between the client application and the cluster

The internal certificate is also used as an authorization method for PostgreSQL
Replica instances.

TLS security can be configured in following ways:

* the Operator can generate long-term certificates automatically at cluster
    creation time,
* you can generate certificates manually.

The following subsections explain how to configure TLS security with the
Operator yourself, as well as how to temporarily disable it if needed.

## Allow the Operator to generate certificates automatically

The Operator is able to generate long-term certificates automatically and
turn on encryption at cluster creation time, if there are no certificate
secrets available. Just deploy your cluster as usual, with the
`kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml` command, and certificates will be generated.

## Check connectivity to the cluster

You can check TLS communication with use of the `psql`, the standard
interactive terminal-based frontend to PostgreSQL. The following command will
spawn a new `pg-client` container, which includes needed command and can be
used for the check (use your real cluster name instead of the `<cluster-name>`
placeholder):

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: pg-client
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      name: pg-client
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: pg-client
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: pg-client
          image: perconalab/percona-distribution-postgresql:{{ postgresrecommended }}
          imagePullPolicy: Always
          command:
          - sleep
          args:
          - "100500"
          volumeMounts:
            - name: ca
              mountPath: "/tmp/tls"
      volumes:
      - name: ca
        secret:
          secretName: <cluster_name>-ssl-ca
          items:
          - key: ca.crt
            path: ca.crt
            mode: 0777
EOF
```

Now get shell access to the newly created container, and launch the PostgreSQL
interactive terminal to check connectivity over the encrypted channel (please
use real cluster-name, [PostgreSQL user login and password](users.md)):

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" data-prompt-second="[postgres@pg-client /]$"}
$ kubectl exec -it deployment/pg-client -- bash -il
[postgres@pg-client /]$ PGSSLMODE=verify-ca PGSSLROOTCERT=/tmp/tls/ca.crt psql postgres://<postgresql-user>:<postgresql-password>@<cluster-name>-pgbouncer.<namespace>.svc.cluster.local
```

Now you should see the prompt of PostgreSQL interactive terminal:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" data-prompt-second="pgdb=>"}
$ psql ({{ postgresrecommended }})
Type "help" for help.
pgdb=>
```

## Generate certificates manually

### Provide pre-existing certificates to the Operator

To allow the Operator to use custom certificates, simply create the appropriate
Secrets in your cluster namespace *before* deploying the cluster with the
`kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml` command. The Secret should contain the TLS key
(`tls.key`), TLS certificate (`tls.crt`) and the CA certificate (`ca.crt`) to
use:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: cluster1-cert
type: Opaque
data:
  ca.crt: <value>
  tls.crt: <value>
  tls.key: <value>
```

For example, if you have files named `ca.crt`, `my_tls.key`, and `my_tls.crt`
stored on your local machine, you could run the following command to create a
Secret named `cluster1.tls` in the `postgres-operator` namespace:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ kubectl create secret generic -n postgres-operator cluster1.tls \
  --from-file=ca.crt=ca.crt \
  --from-file=tls.key=my_tls.key \
  --from-file=tls.crt=my_tls.crt
```

You should use two sets of certificates: one set is for external communications,
and another set is for internal ones. A secret created for the external use must
be added to the `secrets.customTLSSecret.name` field of your Custom Resource.
A certificate generated for internal communications must be added to the
 `secrets.customReplicationTLSSecret.name` field in your Custom Resource. You
can do it in the `deplou/cr.yaml` configuration file as follows:

```yaml
spec:
  ...
  secrets:
     customTLSSecret:
       name: cluster1-cert
     customReplicationTLSSecret:
       name: replication1-cert
  ...
```

Don't forget to apply changes as usual:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml
```

### Provide custom root CA certificate to the Operator

You can also provide a custom root CA certificate to the Operator. In this case the Operator will not generate one itself, but will use the user-provided CA.
Create a separate secret with this certificate and specify this secret in Custom Resource options.

For example, if you have files named `my_tls.key` and `my_tls.crt` stored on your local machine, you could run the following command to create a
Secret named `cluster1-ca-cert` in the `postgres-operator` namespace:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ kubectl create secret generic -n postgres-operator cluster1-ca-cert \
  --from-file=tls.crt=my_tls.crt \
  --from-file=tls.key=my_tls.key
```

You also need to specify details about this secret in your `deploy/cr.yaml` manifest:

```yaml
...
secrets:
  customRootCATLSSecret:
    name: cluster1-ca-cert
    items:
      - key: "tls.crt"
        path: "root.crt"
      - key: "tls.key"
        path: "root.key"
```

Now, when you create the cluster with the `kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml` command, the Operator should use the root CA certificate you had provided.

!!! warning

    This approach allows using root CA certificate auto-generated by the Operator for some other clusters, but it needs caution.  If the cluster with auto-generated certificate has `delete-ssl` finalizer enabled, the certificate will be deleted at the cluster deletion event even if it was manually provided to some other cluster.

### Generate custom certificates for the Operator yourself

The good option to find out the certificates specifics needed for the Operator
would be to look at certificates, generated by the Operator automatically.
Supposing that your cluster name is `cluster1`, you can examine the
auto-generated CA certificate (`ca.crt`) after deploying the cluster as follows:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ kubectl get secret/cluster1-cluster-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' | base64 --decode | openssl x509 -text -noout
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ``` {.text .no-copy}
    Certificate:
        Data:
            Version: 3 (0x2)
            Serial Number:
                ec:f3:d6:f5:35:5c:97:0c:66:cc:90:ed:e6:4b:0a:07
            Signature Algorithm: ecdsa-with-SHA384
            Issuer: CN = postgres-operator-ca
            Validity
                Not Before: Dec 24 13:58:21 2023 GMT
                Not After : Dec 21 14:58:21 2033 GMT
            Subject: CN = postgres-operator-ca
            Subject Public Key Info:
            ...
        ...
    ```

You can check the auto-generated TLS certificate (`tls.crt`) in a similar way:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ kubectl get secret/cluster1-cluster-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.tls\.crt}' | base64 --decode | openssl x509 -text -noout
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ``` {.text .no-copy}
    Certificate:
        Data:
            Version: 3 (0x2)
            Serial Number:
                59:f3:44:09:f1:73:b3:8e:ba:d4:a0:52:cc:fb:9c:1f
            Signature Algorithm: ecdsa-with-SHA384
            Issuer: CN = postgres-operator-ca
            Validity
                Not Before: Dec 24 13:58:21 2023 GMT
                Not After : Dec 23 14:58:21 2024 GMT
            Subject: CN = cluster1-primary.default.svc.cluster.local.
            Subject Public Key Info:
                Public Key Algorithm: id-ecPublicKey
                    Public-Key: (256 bit)
                    pub:
                        04:b1:2f:37:1b:ca:ab:5f:19:38:24:69:11:54:82:
                        10:49:fd:00:3c:26:ef:83:32:82:b1:73:96:e8:9d:
                        eb:2f:60:89:ea:3a:cb:95:a7:0a:2e:46:63:ce:29:
                        87:17:1a:d4:3e:c5:5a:90:8c:71:3b:23:75:21:42:
                        09:60:81:da:c1
                    ASN1 OID: prime256v1
                    NIST CURVE: P-256
            X509v3 extensions:
                X509v3 Key Usage: critical
                    Digital Signature, Key Encipherment
                X509v3 Basic Constraints: critical
                    CA:FALSE
                X509v3 Authority Key Identifier: 
                    3C:25:65:88:F2:CD:29:37:05:06:7C:E8:F3:C4:2B:CD:9B:DC:5E:74
                X509v3 Subject Alternative Name: 
                    DNS:cluster1-primary.default.svc.cluster.local., DNS:cluster1-primary.default.svc, DNS:cluster1-primary.default, DNS:cluster1-primary, DNS:cluster1-replicas.default.svc.cluster.local., DNS:cluster1-replicas.default.svc, DNS:cluster1-replicas.default, DNS:cluster1-replicas
        Signature Algorithm: ecdsa-with-SHA384
        ...
    ```

While sharing the same `ca.crt`, certificates for external communications (referenced in the `secrets.customTLSSecret.name` Custom Resource option) and certificates for internal ones (referenced in the `secrets.customReplicationTLSSecret.name` Custom Resource option) can't share the same `tls.crt`. The `tls.crt` for external communications should have a Common Name (CN) setting that matches the primary Service name (`CN = cluster1-primary.default.svc.cluster.local.` in the above example). Similarly, the `tls.crt` for internal communications should have a Common Name (CN) setting that matches the preset replication user: `CN=_crunchyrepl`.

One of the options to create certificates yourself is to use [CloudFlare PKI and TLS toolkit :octicons-link-external-16:](https://cfssl.org/). 
Supposing that your cluster name is `cluster1` and the desired namespace is
`postgres-operator`, certificates generation may look as follows:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ export CLUSTER_NAME=cluster1
    $ export NAMESPACE=postgres-operator
    $ cat <<EOF | cfssl gencert -initca - | cfssljson -bare ca
    {
      "CN": "*",
      "key": {
        "algo": "ecdsa",
        "size": 384
      }
    }
    EOF

    $ cat <<EOF > ca-config.json
    {
       "signing": {
         "default": {
            "expiry": "87600h",
            "usages": ["digital signature", "key encipherment", "content commitment"]
          }
       }
    }
    EOF

    $ cat <<EOF | cfssl gencert -ca=ca.pem  -ca-key=ca-key.pem -config=./ca-config.json - | cfssljson -bare server
    {
       "hosts": [
         "localhost",
         "${CLUSTER_NAME}-primary",
         "${CLUSTER_NAME}-primary.${NAMESPACE}",
         "${CLUSTER_NAME}-primary.${NAMESPACE}.svc.cluster.local",
         "${CLUSTER_NAME}-primary.${NAMESPACE}.svc"
       ],
       "CN": "${CLUSTER_NAME}-primary.${NAMESPACE}.svc.cluster.local", 
       "key": {
         "algo": "ecdsa",
         "size": 384
       }
    }
    EOF
    ```

You can find more on genrating certificates this way in [official Kubernetes documentation :octicons-link-external-16:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tls/managing-tls-in-a-cluster/).

Don't forget that you should generate certificates twice: one set is for
external communications, and another set is for internal ones!

## Check your certificates for expiration

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
$ kubectl get secrets
```


1. First, check the necessary secrets names (`cluster1-cluster-cert` and `cluster1-replication-cert` by default):


    You will have the following response:

    ``` {.text .no-copy}
    NAME                            TYPE     DATA   AGE
    cluster1-cluster-cert           Opaque   3      11m
    ...
    cluster1-replication-cert       Opaque   3      11m
    ...
    ```

2. Now use the following command to find out the certificates validity dates,
    substituting Secrets names if necessary:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ {
      kubectl get secret/cluster1-replication-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.tls\.crt}' | base64 --decode | openssl x509 -noout -dates
      kubectl get secret/cluster1-cluster-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' | base64 --decode | openssl x509 -noout -dates
      }
    ```

    The resulting output will be self-explanatory:

    ``` {.text .no-copy}
    notBefore=Jun 28 10:20:19 2023 GMT
    notAfter=Jun 27 11:20:19 2024 GMT
    notBefore=Jun 28 10:20:18 2023 GMT
    notAfter=Jun 25 11:20:18 2033 GMT
    ```

## Keep certificates after deleting the cluster

In case of cluster deletion, objects, created for SSL (Secret, certificate, and issuer) are not deleted by default.

If the user wants the cleanup of objects created for SSL, there is a [finalizers.percona.com/delete-ssl](operator.md#finalizers-delete-ssl) Custom Resource option, which can be set in `deploy/cr.yaml`: if this finalizer is set, the Operator will delete Secret, certificate and issuer after the cluster deletion event.

Commit message:

K8SPG-555 Mention certificates are generated on per-cluster basis

docs/TLS.md, after:

# Transport layer security (TLS)

The Percona Operator for PostgreSQL uses Transport Layer Security
(TLS) cryptographic protocol for the following types of communication:

* Internal - communication between PostgreSQL instances in the cluster
* External - communication between the client application and the cluster

The internal certificate is also used as an authorization method for PostgreSQL
Replica instances.

TLS security can be configured in following ways:

* the Operator can generate long-term certificates automatically at cluster
    creation time,
* you can generate certificates manually.

The following subsections explain how to configure TLS security with the
Operator yourself, as well as how to temporarily disable it if needed.

## Allow the Operator to generate certificates automatically

The Operator is able to generate long-term certificates automatically and
turn on encryption at cluster creation time, if there are no certificate
secrets available. Just deploy your cluster as usual, with the
`kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml` command, and certificates will be generated.

## Check connectivity to the cluster

You can check TLS communication with use of the `psql`, the standard
interactive terminal-based frontend to PostgreSQL. The following command will
spawn a new `pg-client` container, which includes needed command and can be
used for the check (use your real cluster name instead of the `<cluster-name>`
placeholder):

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
$ cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: pg-client
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      name: pg-client
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: pg-client
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: pg-client
          image: perconalab/percona-distribution-postgresql:{{ postgresrecommended }}
          imagePullPolicy: Always
          command:
          - sleep
          args:
          - "100500"
          volumeMounts:
            - name: ca
              mountPath: "/tmp/tls"
      volumes:
      - name: ca
        secret:
          secretName: <cluster_name>-ssl-ca
          items:
          - key: ca.crt
            path: ca.crt
            mode: 0777
EOF
```

Now get shell access to the newly created container, and launch the PostgreSQL
interactive terminal to check connectivity over the encrypted channel (please
use real cluster-name, [PostgreSQL user login and password](users.md)):

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" data-prompt-second="[postgres@pg-client /]$"}
$ kubectl exec -it deployment/pg-client -- bash -il
[postgres@pg-client /]$ PGSSLMODE=verify-ca PGSSLROOTCERT=/tmp/tls/ca.crt psql postgres://<postgresql-user>:<postgresql-password>@<cluster-name>-pgbouncer.<namespace>.svc.cluster.local
```

Now you should see the prompt of PostgreSQL interactive terminal:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" data-prompt-second="pgdb=>"}
$ psql ({{ postgresrecommended }})
Type "help" for help.
pgdb=>
```

## Generate certificates manually

### Provide pre-existing certificates to the Operator

To allow the Operator to use custom certificates, simply create the appropriate
Secrets in your cluster namespace *before* deploying the cluster with the
`kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml` command. The Secret should contain the TLS key
(`tls.key`), TLS certificate (`tls.crt`) and the CA certificate (`ca.crt`) to
use:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: cluster1-cert
type: Opaque
data:
  ca.crt: <value>
  tls.crt: <value>
  tls.key: <value>
```

For example, if you have files named `ca.crt`, `my_tls.key`, and `my_tls.crt`
stored on your local machine, you could run the following command to create a
Secret named `cluster1.tls` in the `postgres-operator` namespace:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ kubectl create secret generic -n postgres-operator cluster1.tls \
  --from-file=ca.crt=ca.crt \
  --from-file=tls.key=my_tls.key \
  --from-file=tls.crt=my_tls.crt
```

You should use two sets of certificates: one set is for external communications,
and another set is for internal ones. A secret created for the external use must
be added to the `secrets.customTLSSecret.name` field of your Custom Resource.
A certificate generated for internal communications must be added to the
 `secrets.customReplicationTLSSecret.name` field in your Custom Resource. You
can do it in the `deplou/cr.yaml` configuration file as follows:

```yaml
spec:
  ...
  secrets:
     customTLSSecret:
       name: cluster1-cert
     customReplicationTLSSecret:
       name: replication1-cert
  ...
```

Don't forget to apply changes as usual:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml
```

### Provide custom root CA certificate to the Operator

You can also provide a custom root CA certificate to the Operator. In this case the Operator will not generate one itself, but will use the user-provided CA. 

!!! note

    Particularly, this can be useful if you would like to have several database clusters with certificates generated by the Operator based on the same root CA. Otherwise the Operator 2.5.0 and newer automatically creates root CA on per-cluster basis (in previous versions, autogenerated root CA was shared among all clusters under the Operator control).

To make the Operator using custom root certificate, create a separate secret with this certificate and specify this secret in Custom Resource options.

For example, if you have files named `my_tls.key` and `my_tls.crt` stored on your local machine, you could run the following command to create a
Secret named `cluster1-ca-cert` in the `postgres-operator` namespace:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ kubectl create secret generic -n postgres-operator cluster1-ca-cert \
  --from-file=tls.crt=my_tls.crt \
  --from-file=tls.key=my_tls.key
```

You also need to specify details about this secret in your `deploy/cr.yaml` manifest:

```yaml
...
secrets:
  customRootCATLSSecret:
    name: cluster1-ca-cert
    items:
      - key: "tls.crt"
        path: "root.crt"
      - key: "tls.key"
        path: "root.key"
```

Now, when you create the cluster with the `kubectl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml` command, the Operator should use the root CA certificate you had provided.

!!! warning

    This approach allows using root CA certificate auto-generated by the Operator for some other clusters, but it needs caution.  If the cluster with auto-generated certificate has `delete-ssl` finalizer enabled, the certificate will be deleted at the cluster deletion event even if it was manually provided to some other cluster.

### Generate custom certificates for the Operator yourself

The good option to find out the certificates specifics needed for the Operator
would be to look at certificates, generated by the Operator automatically.
Supposing that your cluster name is `cluster1`, you can examine the
auto-generated CA certificate (`ca.crt`) after deploying the cluster as follows:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ kubectl get secret/cluster1-cluster-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' | base64 --decode | openssl x509 -text -noout
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ``` {.text .no-copy}
    Certificate:
        Data:
            Version: 3 (0x2)
            Serial Number:
                ec:f3:d6:f5:35:5c:97:0c:66:cc:90:ed:e6:4b:0a:07
            Signature Algorithm: ecdsa-with-SHA384
            Issuer: CN = postgres-operator-ca
            Validity
                Not Before: Dec 24 13:58:21 2023 GMT
                Not After : Dec 21 14:58:21 2033 GMT
            Subject: CN = postgres-operator-ca
            Subject Public Key Info:
            ...
        ...
    ```

You can check the auto-generated TLS certificate (`tls.crt`) in a similar way:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ kubectl get secret/cluster1-cluster-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.tls\.crt}' | base64 --decode | openssl x509 -text -noout
```

??? example "Expected output"

    ``` {.text .no-copy}
    Certificate:
        Data:
            Version: 3 (0x2)
            Serial Number:
                59:f3:44:09:f1:73:b3:8e:ba:d4:a0:52:cc:fb:9c:1f
            Signature Algorithm: ecdsa-with-SHA384
            Issuer: CN = postgres-operator-ca
            Validity
                Not Before: Dec 24 13:58:21 2023 GMT
                Not After : Dec 23 14:58:21 2024 GMT
            Subject: CN = cluster1-primary.default.svc.cluster.local.
            Subject Public Key Info:
                Public Key Algorithm: id-ecPublicKey
                    Public-Key: (256 bit)
                    pub:
                        04:b1:2f:37:1b:ca:ab:5f:19:38:24:69:11:54:82:
                        10:49:fd:00:3c:26:ef:83:32:82:b1:73:96:e8:9d:
                        eb:2f:60:89:ea:3a:cb:95:a7:0a:2e:46:63:ce:29:
                        87:17:1a:d4:3e:c5:5a:90:8c:71:3b:23:75:21:42:
                        09:60:81:da:c1
                    ASN1 OID: prime256v1
                    NIST CURVE: P-256
            X509v3 extensions:
                X509v3 Key Usage: critical
                    Digital Signature, Key Encipherment
                X509v3 Basic Constraints: critical
                    CA:FALSE
                X509v3 Authority Key Identifier: 
                    3C:25:65:88:F2:CD:29:37:05:06:7C:E8:F3:C4:2B:CD:9B:DC:5E:74
                X509v3 Subject Alternative Name: 
                    DNS:cluster1-primary.default.svc.cluster.local., DNS:cluster1-primary.default.svc, DNS:cluster1-primary.default, DNS:cluster1-primary, DNS:cluster1-replicas.default.svc.cluster.local., DNS:cluster1-replicas.default.svc, DNS:cluster1-replicas.default, DNS:cluster1-replicas
        Signature Algorithm: ecdsa-with-SHA384
        ...
    ```

While sharing the same `ca.crt`, certificates for external communications (referenced in the `secrets.customTLSSecret.name` Custom Resource option) and certificates for internal ones (referenced in the `secrets.customReplicationTLSSecret.name` Custom Resource option) can't share the same `tls.crt`. The `tls.crt` for external communications should have a Common Name (CN) setting that matches the primary Service name (`CN = cluster1-primary.default.svc.cluster.local.` in the above example). Similarly, the `tls.crt` for internal communications should have a Common Name (CN) setting that matches the preset replication user: `CN=_crunchyrepl`.

One of the options to create certificates yourself is to use [CloudFlare PKI and TLS toolkit :octicons-link-external-16:](https://cfssl.org/). 
Supposing that your cluster name is `cluster1` and the desired namespace is
`postgres-operator`, certificates generation may look as follows:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ export CLUSTER_NAME=cluster1
    $ export NAMESPACE=postgres-operator
    $ cat <<EOF | cfssl gencert -initca - | cfssljson -bare ca
    {
      "CN": "*",
      "key": {
        "algo": "ecdsa",
        "size": 384
      }
    }
    EOF

    $ cat <<EOF > ca-config.json
    {
       "signing": {
         "default": {
            "expiry": "87600h",
            "usages": ["digital signature", "key encipherment", "content commitment"]
          }
       }
    }
    EOF

    $ cat <<EOF | cfssl gencert -ca=ca.pem  -ca-key=ca-key.pem -config=./ca-config.json - | cfssljson -bare server
    {
       "hosts": [
         "localhost",
         "${CLUSTER_NAME}-primary",
         "${CLUSTER_NAME}-primary.${NAMESPACE}",
         "${CLUSTER_NAME}-primary.${NAMESPACE}.svc.cluster.local",
         "${CLUSTER_NAME}-primary.${NAMESPACE}.svc"
       ],
       "CN": "${CLUSTER_NAME}-primary.${NAMESPACE}.svc.cluster.local", 
       "key": {
         "algo": "ecdsa",
         "size": 384
       }
    }
    EOF
    ```

You can find more on genrating certificates this way in [official Kubernetes documentation :octicons-link-external-16:](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tls/managing-tls-in-a-cluster/).

Don't forget that you should generate certificates twice: one set is for
external communications, and another set is for internal ones!

## Check your certificates for expiration

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
$ kubectl get secrets
```


1. First, check the necessary secrets names (`cluster1-cluster-cert` and `cluster1-replication-cert` by default):


    You will have the following response:

    ``` {.text .no-copy}
    NAME                            TYPE     DATA   AGE
    cluster1-cluster-cert           Opaque   3      11m
    ...
    cluster1-replication-cert       Opaque   3      11m
    ...
    ```

2. Now use the following command to find out the certificates validity dates,
    substituting Secrets names if necessary:

    ``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
    $ {
      kubectl get secret/cluster1-replication-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.tls\.crt}' | base64 --decode | openssl x509 -noout -dates
      kubectl get secret/cluster1-cluster-cert -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' | base64 --decode | openssl x509 -noout -dates
      }
    ```

    The resulting output will be self-explanatory:

    ``` {.text .no-copy}
    notBefore=Jun 28 10:20:19 2023 GMT
    notAfter=Jun 27 11:20:19 2024 GMT
    notBefore=Jun 28 10:20:18 2023 GMT
    notAfter=Jun 25 11:20:18 2033 GMT
    ```

## Keep certificates after deleting the cluster

In case of cluster deletion, objects, created for SSL (Secret, certificate, and issuer) are not deleted by default.

If the user wants the cleanup of objects created for SSL, there is a [finalizers.percona.com/delete-ssl](operator.md#finalizers-delete-ssl) Custom Resource option, which can be set in `deploy/cr.yaml`: if this finalizer is set, the Operator will delete Secret, certificate and issuer after the cluster deletion event.
