docs/users.md, before:

# Users

Operator provides a feature to manage users and databases in your PostgreSQL cluster. This document describes this feature, defaults and ways to fine tune your users. 

## Defaults

When you create a PostgreSQL cluster with the Operator and do not specify any additional users or databases, the Operator will do the following:

- Create a database that matches the name of your PostgreSQL cluster.
- Create an unprivileged PostgreSQL user with the name of the cluster. This user has access to the database created in the previous step.
- Create a Secret with the login credentials and connection details for the PostgreSQL user which is in relation to the database. This is stored in a Secret named `<clusterName>-pguser-<clusterName>`. These credentials include:
    - `user`: The name of the user account.
    - `password`: The password for the user account.
    - `dbname`: The name of the database that the user has access to by default.
    - `host`: The name of the host of the database. This references the Service of the primary PostgreSQL instance.
    - `port`: The port that the database is listening on.
    - `uri`: A PostgreSQL connection URI that provides all the information for logging into the PostgreSQL database via pgBouncer
    - `jdbc-uri`: A PostgreSQL JDBC connection URI that provides all the information for logging into the PostgreSQL database via the JDBC driver.

As an example, using our `cluster1` PostgreSQL cluster, we would see the following created:

- A database named `cluster1`.
- A PostgreSQL user named `cluster1`.
- A Secret named `cluster1-pguser-cluster1` that contains the user credentials and connection information.

## <a name="application-users"></a> Custom Users and Databases

Users and databases can be customized in `spec.users` section in the Custom Resource. Section can be changed at the cluster creation time and adjusted over time. Note the following:

- If `spec.users` is set during the cluster creation, the Operator will not create any default users or databases except for PostgreSQL. If you want additional databases, you will need to specify them.
- For any users added in `spec.users`, the Operator will create a Secret of the `<clusterName>-pguser-<userName>` format. This Secret will contain the user credentials.
- If no databases are specified, `dbname` and `uri` will not be present in the Secret.
- If at least one option under the `spec.users.databases` is specified, the first database in the list will be populated into the connection credentials.
- The Operator does not automatically drop users in case of removed Custom Resource options to prevent accidental data loss.
- Similarly, to prevent accidental data loss Operator does not automatically drop databases (see how to actually drop a database [here](users.md#deleting-users-and-databases)).
- Role attributes are not automatically dropped if you remove them. You need to set the inverse attribute to actually drop them (e.g. `NOSUPERUSER`).
- The special `postgres` user can be added as one of the custom users; however, the privileges of this user cannot be adjusted.

### Creating a New User

Change `PerconaPGCluster` Custom Resource (e.g. by editing your YAML manifest in the `deploy/cr.yaml` configuration file):

```yaml
...
spec:
  users:
    - name: perconapg
```

Apply the changes (e.g. with the usual `kubctl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml' command) will create the new user:

- The user will only be able to connect to the default `postgres` database.
- The credentials of this user are populated in the `<clusterName>-pguser-perconapg` secret. There are no connection credentials.
- The user is unprivileged.

The following example shows how to create a new `pgtest` database and let `perconapg` user access it. The appropriate Custom Resource fragment will look as follows: 

```yaml
...
spec:
  users:
    - name: perconapg
      databases: 
        - pgtest 
```

If you inspect the `<clusterName>-pguser-perconapg` Secret after applying the changes, you will see `dbname` and `uri` options populated there, and the database is created as well.

### Adjusting privileges

You can set role privileges by using the standard [role attributes](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/role-attributes.html) that PostgreSQL provides and adding them to the `spec.users.options` subsection in the Custom Resource. 
The following example will make the `perconapg` a superuser. You can add the following to the spec in your `deploy/cr.yaml`:

```yaml
...
spec:
  users:
    - name: perconapg
      databases:
        - pgtest
      options: "SUPERUSER"
```

Apply changes with the usual `kubctl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml' command.

To actually revoke the superuser privilege afterwards, you will need to do and apply the following change:

```yaml
...
spec:
  users:
    - name: perconapg
      databases:
        - pgtest
      options: "NOSUPERUSER"
```

If you want to add multiple privileges, you can use a space-separated list as follows:

```yaml
...
spec:
  users:
    - name: perconapg
      databases:
        - pgtest
      options: "CREATEDB CREATEROLE"
```

### `postgres` User

By default, the Operator does not create the `postgres` user. You can create it by applying the following change to your Custom Resource:

```yaml
...
spec:
  users:
    - name: postgres
```

This will create a Secret named `<clusterName>-pguser-postgres` that contains the credentials of the `postgres` account. 

### Deleting users and databases

The Operator does not delete users and databases automatically. After you remove the user from the Custom Resource, it will continue to exist in your cluster. To remove a user and all of its objects, as a superuser you will need to run `DROP OWNED` in each database the user has objects in, and `DROP ROLE` in your PostgreSQL cluster.

```sql
DROP OWNED BY perconapg;
DROP ROLE perconapg;
```

For databases, you should run the `DROP DATABASE` command as a superuser:

```sql
DROP DATABASE pgtest;
```

### Managing user passwords

If you want to rotate user's password, just remove the old password in the
correspondent Secret: the Operator will immediately generate a new password
and save it to the appropriate Secret. You can remove the old password with the
`kubectl patch secret` command:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
$ kubectl patch secret <clusterName>-pguser-<userName> -p '{"data":{"password":""}}'
```

Also, you can set a custom password for the user. Do it as follows:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
$ kubectl patch secret <clusterName>-pguser-<userName> -p '{"stringData":{"password":"<custom_password>", "verifier":""}}'
```

### Superuser and pgBouncer

For security reasons we do not allow superusers to connect to cluster through pgBouncer by default. You can connect through `primary` service (read more in [exposure documentation](expose.md)).

Otherwise you can use the [proxy.pgBouncer.exposeSuperusers](operator.md#proxy-pgbouncer-exposesuperusers) Custom Resource option to enable superusers connection via pgBouncer.

Commit message:

K8SPG-359 custom user secret name

docs/users.md, after:

# Users

Operator provides a feature to manage users and databases in your PostgreSQL cluster. This document describes this feature, defaults and ways to fine tune your users. 

## Defaults

When you create a PostgreSQL cluster with the Operator and do not specify any additional users or databases, the Operator will do the following:

- Create a database that matches the name of your PostgreSQL cluster.
- Create an unprivileged PostgreSQL user with the name of the cluster. This user has access to the database created in the previous step.
- Create a Secret with the login credentials and connection details for the PostgreSQL user which is in relation to the database. This is stored in a Secret named `<clusterName>-pguser-<clusterName>`. These credentials include:
    - `user`: The name of the user account.
    - `password`: The password for the user account.
    - `dbname`: The name of the database that the user has access to by default.
    - `host`: The name of the host of the database. This references the Service of the primary PostgreSQL instance.
    - `port`: The port that the database is listening on.
    - `uri`: A PostgreSQL connection URI that provides all the information for logging into the PostgreSQL database via pgBouncer
    - `jdbc-uri`: A PostgreSQL JDBC connection URI that provides all the information for logging into the PostgreSQL database via the JDBC driver.

As an example, using our `cluster1` PostgreSQL cluster, we would see the following created:

- A database named `cluster1`.
- A PostgreSQL user named `cluster1`.
- A Secret named `cluster1-pguser-cluster1` that contains the user credentials and connection information.

## <a name="application-users"></a> Custom Users and Databases

Users and databases can be customized in `spec.users` section in the Custom Resource. Section can be changed at the cluster creation time and adjusted over time. Note the following:

- If `spec.users` is set during the cluster creation, the Operator will not create any default users or databases except for PostgreSQL. If you want additional databases, you will need to specify them.
- For any users added in `spec.users`, the Operator will create a Secret of the `<clusterName>-pguser-<userName>` format (such default naming can be altered with the `spec.users.secretName` option). This Secret will contain the user credentials.
- If no databases are specified, `dbname` and `uri` will not be present in the Secret.
- If at least one option under the `spec.users.databases` is specified, the first database in the list will be populated into the connection credentials.
- The Operator does not automatically drop users in case of removed Custom Resource options to prevent accidental data loss.
- Similarly, to prevent accidental data loss Operator does not automatically drop databases (see how to actually drop a database [here](users.md#deleting-users-and-databases)).
- Role attributes are not automatically dropped if you remove them. You need to set the inverse attribute to actually drop them (e.g. `NOSUPERUSER`).
- The special `postgres` user can be added as one of the custom users; however, the privileges of this user cannot be adjusted.

### Creating a New User

Change `PerconaPGCluster` Custom Resource (e.g. by editing your YAML manifest in the `deploy/cr.yaml` configuration file):

```yaml
...
spec:
  users:
    - name: perconapg
```

Apply the changes (e.g. with the usual `kubctl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml' command) will create the new user:

- The user will only be able to connect to the default `postgres` database.
- The credentials of this user are populated in the `<clusterName>-pguser-perconapg` secret. There are no connection credentials.
- The user is unprivileged.

The following example shows how to create a new `pgtest` database and let `perconapg` user access it. The appropriate Custom Resource fragment will look as follows: 

```yaml
...
spec:
  users:
    - name: perconapg
      databases: 
        - pgtest 
```

If you inspect the `<clusterName>-pguser-perconapg` Secret after applying the changes, you will see `dbname` and `uri` options populated there, and the database is created as well.

### Adjusting privileges

You can set role privileges by using the standard [role attributes](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/role-attributes.html) that PostgreSQL provides and adding them to the `spec.users.options` subsection in the Custom Resource. 
The following example will make the `perconapg` a superuser. You can add the following to the spec in your `deploy/cr.yaml`:

```yaml
...
spec:
  users:
    - name: perconapg
      databases:
        - pgtest
      options: "SUPERUSER"
```

Apply changes with the usual `kubctl apply -f deploy/cr.yaml' command.

To actually revoke the superuser privilege afterwards, you will need to do and apply the following change:

```yaml
...
spec:
  users:
    - name: perconapg
      databases:
        - pgtest
      options: "NOSUPERUSER"
```

If you want to add multiple privileges, you can use a space-separated list as follows:

```yaml
...
spec:
  users:
    - name: perconapg
      databases:
        - pgtest
      options: "CREATEDB CREATEROLE"
```

### `postgres` User

By default, the Operator does not create the `postgres` user. You can create it by applying the following change to your Custom Resource:

```yaml
...
spec:
  users:
    - name: postgres
```

This will create a Secret named `<clusterName>-pguser-postgres` that contains the credentials of the `postgres` account. 

### Deleting users and databases

The Operator does not delete users and databases automatically. After you remove the user from the Custom Resource, it will continue to exist in your cluster. To remove a user and all of its objects, as a superuser you will need to run `DROP OWNED` in each database the user has objects in, and `DROP ROLE` in your PostgreSQL cluster.

```sql
DROP OWNED BY perconapg;
DROP ROLE perconapg;
```

For databases, you should run the `DROP DATABASE` command as a superuser:

```sql
DROP DATABASE pgtest;
```

### Managing user passwords

If you want to rotate user's password, just remove the old password in the
correspondent Secret: the Operator will immediately generate a new password
and save it to the appropriate Secret. You can remove the old password with the
`kubectl patch secret` command:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
$ kubectl patch secret <clusterName>-pguser-<userName> -p '{"data":{"password":""}}'
```

Also, you can set a custom password for the user. Do it as follows:

``` {.bash data-prompt="$" }
$ kubectl patch secret <clusterName>-pguser-<userName> -p '{"stringData":{"password":"<custom_password>", "verifier":""}}'
```

### Superuser and pgBouncer

For security reasons we do not allow superusers to connect to cluster through pgBouncer by default. You can connect through `primary` service (read more in [exposure documentation](expose.md)).

Otherwise you can use the [proxy.pgBouncer.exposeSuperusers](operator.md#proxy-pgbouncer-exposesuperusers) Custom Resource option to enable superusers connection via pgBouncer.
